# open-ai-hmdb-data

To get your own API keys: https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys <br />
Above is the link to if you want to specifically utilize OpenAI as the LLM, but other options exist like HuggingFace
<br /><br />

**Explanation:**
I wrote this code while doing this internship under Dr. Leo at Boston's MGH and in particular we were investigating some NMR (Nuclear Magnetic Resonance https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_magnetic_resonance) data from various experiments.  One thing that we wanted to be able to do was to give the program a certain ppm peak range (in my example I did from 1.00 to 1.03) and the program would respond by giving certain metabolites that match those peak ranges.  I took the data from the offical Human Metabolome Data Base (https://hmdb.ca/downloads), specifically, the .xml files and the txt NMR peaklist file.  I spent a lot of time writing a bunch of different file reader and reorganizer codes to eventually get the dataset (ID-Name-PPM-Where-Modified.csv) that I thought would be the most effective to use for my purpose (some of the code I wrote is in the folder, the entire process took forever and that is a whole separate problem that I won't bore you with but you can take a look).  Essentially for this project, I used LangChain as the framework for incorporating Large Language Models, in this case, OpenAI.  An agent (in my particular case LangChain's CSV Agent https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/toolkits/csv) communicates the user input with the LLM to eventually get a resulting answer.  While the agent was really good at answering simpler questions, like how many rows were in the data, it was harder to see the accuracy for more complicated questions.  I also tried to kind of make an app with streamlit (App.py) that would make this process even more interactive, but it also ran into the limitation of my API key expiring and this token limit issue.  OpenAI has a limit on the maximum amount of tokens one can send so I tried techniques like Map Reduction to send the data in chunks but I wasn't super successful.  All in all, even though this approach didn't yield particularly groundbreaking results, I at minimum learned a lot from the experience.  This was very new territory for me so I used a lot of online resources to basically teach myself everything.

<br /><br />
**Important Test:**
The main important test was with the question: "Given the ppm range of 1.00 to 1.03, list the metabolites that match" and the thought process was shown in the notebook file towards the bottom.  Below is the programs response, which I admit, I can't confirm how accurate it is.  Nonetheless this was conceptually very interesting.

**Resulting Metabolites:**
7-Dehydrocholesterol, Aldosterone, Androstenedione, Glycocholic acid, L-Isoleucine, Testosterone, Propionic acid, 3b-Hydroxy-5-cholenoic acid, 16-a-Hydroxypregnenolone, 17-Hydroxyprogesterone, Etiocholanolone, 7-Ketocholesterol, Chenodeoxycholic acid, PC(16:0/16:0), Deoxycholic acid, Deoxycholic acid glycine conjugate, Cholesterol sulfate, Hyodeoxycholic acid, 3-Hexanone, Lithocholic acid, Stearic acid, beta-Sitosterol, Vitamin D3, L-Valine, Ergocalciferol, Tetrahydrocortisone, Stigmasterol, Ursodeoxycholic acid, Progesterone, all-trans-Retinoic acid, alpha-Tocopherol, Menthol, Azithromycin, Deoxycorticosterone, 17a-Hydroxypregnenolone, Epiandrosterone, 5alpha-And

